foreign
[Music]
five years ago I was a student of this
University so coming out through this
bridge only and we use this bridge to go
to our classes and then five years back
I'm again in the campus but not as a
student being on the other side of table
obviously feels so good and also it
inculcates a sense of respect for this
college for you know making me what I am
today and making me so special that I am
here to recruit students so this
obviously feels very good
nostalgic at the same time true so like
you said that five years back you were
have must have a
vehicle that nervousness
right so what advice would you like to
give to the store yeah I still remember
so my placement was with Electro Steels
limited so it was 11th of the February
2017.
so obviously I was very much nervous but
then I was also very much prepared so I
spent the last two days researching
about the company and obviously brushing
up my HR skills to impress the
recruiters so it was the 11th of
February 2022 when the company finally
came in and they gave their
pre-placement talks so I was determined
that you know whatever happens I would
take this company so I gave my hundred
percent obviously I was nervous and
there were three four rounds first was
the aptitude test so I was not very good
at aptitude still I gave the test and I
passed that then came the GD session GD
session was pretty good and after that
it was a personal interview session
wherein two recruiters were there from
the same company and our interview
lasted for approximately 50 55 minutes
and they grilled me over everything you
know for a fresher it's only academics
that comes handy and also the knowledge
outside your college that you basically
gather from reading basically gather
from you know meeting different people
asking your professors all the foolish
questions
so your teammates may think that what
stupid questions he is asking but then
at the end of the day everything matters
and yes nervousness also plays a very
critical role because when you are
nervous you will feel the need to study
you will feel the need to learn more and
also you will feel the need you know to
hone up your skills so that a recruiter
is impressed and he takes you along so
yes nervousness was there and I still
remember after my placement was done I
was being thrown into this same pool so
obviously it's a sense of nostalgia and
nervousness all mixed together
and that Joy of getting pleased so uh
starting with the first thing when you
went to the second year so you had to
choose between marketing and nature yes
right so you chose HR so what what was
the most important element that
attracted you towards and um
so while looking for a profile
what should a student look into first
just curve the profile that they are
getting into or the company see uh first
of all answering to your first question
why HR so since my graduation days only
I have done my bachelor's in business
management from a different College not
from Cape so I was determined that I
have to get into HR only and IR was
something that industrial relations was
something that fascinated me even more
so I knew that HR is my domain and I
will be able to do good in HR so I was
determined from my graduation days only
and as you asked coming to the second
year I was asked to choose
specialization so that was the time I uh
even you know I made my hope very
stronger that I am built for HR and you
know I'll be able to cook good with HR
profile so that's why I chose HR and the
company is obviously coming for the core
HR placements were less but then I knew
that even in one company if I get the
chance I'll be able to prove and I'll be
you know the recruiter will be impressed
and he or she will or take me along so
that's my HR journey and second thing
about my HR Journal is what I like to
highlight is the faculty in HR
some of the faculties have really played
a key role in me choosing HR and
obviously the skills that right now I
have in HR it's uh basically the
blessings of all those professors and
obviously you will have to work hard
also with that so that's why HR is uh in
all that you wanted to say is that
students can take you know the advantage
of going and asking a lot of questions
because that helps a lot exactly yeah I
feel like there are two ways of that
first thing first is that a student
learns something second thing is that
obviously you get class participation
marks so both of it uh you know combined
together gives you a very good profile
correct and what about the profile
foreign
is something that a student when he or
she is coming into the second year it's
high time that he or she should decide
about what he is he or she is expecting
about the future or what he or she uh
you know wants to build his or her
career upon so if you are deciding about
your career path and your profile at an
early stage it will help you a lot so
just to cite my example I knew that
industrial relations is my photo and I
need to get into HR business partnering
job which will also have the HR side of
it which will also have the IR side of
it so I chose the profile I saw that
electrician sales limited is coming from
for such a profile and I gave my hundred
percent and I think that not being only
in IR or not being a you know siled only
to a particular domain has helped me a
lot so I have gained experiences of
almost all the domains Under the
Umbrella of HR so right now uh if I join
any other company also or if I am
working in my current company also so
all those experiences come handy so that
is why uh choosing your profile and
choosing your career path is equally
important so
if you have decided your career path not
in this stage after 10 years down the
line also you know that what you want to
achieve in your future so that will
obviously come handy
this is very important
how is the journey after getting placed
after getting pleased if you talk about
the campus life it's pretty much relaxed
because you know that I have something
after the completion of my college so
it's pretty much relax and employment is
something obviously after post
graduation employment or something which
is very very important that is the most
crucial part exactly you need to face
your friends also who have got placed
into good companies you need to face
your family also who are expecting a
good job out of you so obviously uh life
after placement is completely difficult
in the campus so you will again get that
sense of nostalgia that it's just three
months left and it's just two months
left second thing is that life once you
come out of the campus it's completely
different
so I still remember we had a program
called campus to corporate in my
previous environment so that was
something which basically showed us the
difference between the corporate world
and the campus world so people might
think that you have completed your MBA
and that's it your struggle is over but
when you get into the corporate world
your struggle has just started and this
struggle will never end it will only end
with your employment so every day you
will face new challenges every day you
will get a new aspiration to you know
achieve something or learn about
something so this is a very um you know
those two lives are very much different
in campus you only have pressure to
complete the assignment to complete the
exams to attend the classes but in
corporate life every day it's a struggle
and every day it's a new learning and uh
you know just like the college takes
your exams every year we also have a
presence every year so that tests us
like what we have learned how we have
performed and how you can achieve more
and more
yeah
so there must have been some technical
skills that you thought that I hope that
I could have learned it in the campus so
what are those things that you would
like to give advice to yours to be very
honest of things which you learn in
campus do come handy in corporate I
would not deny the fact that the work is
completely different it's not based on
the study that you do where like the
perception of many students it is based
but the real difference is the practical
application so the HR skills that you
learn here the theoretical part that you
learn here you get an on-field
implementation of though all those
things in the corporate world so this is
the difference and if you talk about the
skill set I would say that people who
study IR it's better for them uh you
know to study the IR ones and then go
through the case studies and the videos
available on the internet so as to know
that what exactly is in picture after
two years so that will help them shape
their career even better and if you talk
about the HR skill set obviously HR
skill set is very important but then the
uh the most important thing that I
realize in HR is the interpersonal
skills because obviously we are dealing
with humans humans and humans are the
biggest Assets in any company so if your
interpersonal skills are good if you are
able to you know talk to numerous number
of people if you are able to remember
faces if you are able to uh you know
remember names this is something that is
very much important that students should
focus upon from their startup campus
life and it's a very easy thing that
they can do they can talk to any
stranger any other person in the college
and you know interact with them and ask
them about their Hobbies General queries
what are your hobbies where are you from
this will help you a lot while uh you
are in the corporate
so be it in campus or outside campus
networking is very important it helps
you a lot yes yeah so uh going ahead
since uh you you must have done your
internship and sprinkling so how is The
Internship experience and how did it
help you
with your placements as well my
internship was again into the HR domain
and my internship was with coal India
limited which is a public sector
undertaking so I did my internship in
core IR plus to that my topic was
Manpower planning so I was learning the
two facets of HR One the industrial
relations the actual strikes and
lockouts and Trade union peoples and
again the Manpower planning the number
use the formula used what are the basis
for Manpower planning how do we achieve
a number then how do we restructure the
organization according to the Manpower
number plan on what basis the Manpower
number has been planned so these are the
things you know which uh which we
learned in the college but with
implementing the same overground is a
complete different picture so the
factories act that you learn in the
industrial relation classes the
implementation of the scene same is
again a very a very very different
platform altogether so my internship was
with a PSU and so I could not get a PPU
because it was a BSU
so internship is equally important
because you know getting into the actual
corporate world you get a feel of what
it will be actually like
so uh regarding uh when you were a
student did did you with the value of a
part of any clubs I was a part of HR
club and I was also a part of NSS which
was the then handled by Professor
Abhishek Kumar and I was also a part of
marketing club for a brief period of
time in the first year but as and when
time went by I realized that only one
club is important HR Club I represented
HR Club also in many of the competitions
and I also won some prizes we used to
organize HR conclave which I suppose is
still happening yes yes so it was fun
being a part of the HR club and again it
was a learning opportunity for us also
because we also you know had a program
called confident at that time whereby
leaders from Industries would come and
you know take take your GDs and
interviews so networking uh through all
those people getting them on board the
medium of communication it was very
important
so it has helped you a lot to you know
get outside the world and know around
the networks yes so activities in a club
and other different programs the events
that we have in college helps us
so we have talked about placements
can you please share any memories of
your hostel life
memories are numerous in Hostel life so
I would not count upon any particular
memory but the best memory was that uh
obviously about my placements like you
know at that time we had a tradition of
people beating you with bills and
throwing you inside the pool once you
get faced so obviously that was the best
memory coming out of the ground floor
Syndicate Hall than coming here and
people are dropping me off into the pool
so that was the best experience plus to
that there are many experiences that I
cannot share from camera obviously being
in a hostel life that two boys will
still see you people can understand
I think
people students and boys are still
carrying your legacy
so any one mistake that you would let
the students know to avoid it
if you talk about mistakes it's just
only about the academic spot do Focus
well on your academics they are equally
important I'm not talking about marks
rather you should focus on the knowledge
that you have and focus on more and more
interpersonal skills like I told you in
HR if you are you know going for HR or
even if you are going for sales
interpersonal skills is something that
is going to help you in corporate also
and interpersonal skills is something
that is
to learn those interpersonal skills get
them rooted inside you so that it stays
longer plus to that patience and
struggle is something which you will
have to do you know every day in your
corporate life till the time you retire
so
learn your patience because MBA college
is something where you know pressure is
there to submit the assignments to
complete the presentation so do not get
disheartened like I was not able to
complete the assignments and all you
rather take it as a challenge and try to
complete that so that will be uh you
know a life skill for the students
nothing much just keep rocking and keep
learning
message for your juniors keep learning
obviously
thank you everyone will come again with
the next episode of alumni interview
series thank you